Docs: Update-to-export-pattern (#526)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/experimental/export-pattern/index.mdx

title: Export pattern
---

<PageDescription>

When exporting something you have the ability to change the format of the object or resource you are exporting out external to the system. Downloading transfers a resource from a remote system to a local system without changing its format.

</PageDescription>

#### Status:

Experimental

#### Maintainers:

[Vikki Paterson](https://github.com/vikkipaterson), [Chloe Poulter](https://github.com/chloepoulterdesign)

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Intuitive default name</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Editable name</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink small>Optional extras</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

![Example of an export modal in context](images/0.png)

<Caption>Example of an export modal</Caption>

![Example of a download modal in context](images/download0.png)

> <Caption>Example of a download modal in context</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of a download modal in the context of a product</Caption>
```

## Intuitive default name

> When the resource is given an intuitive name by default and there is no choice of export/download location, the export occurs on the click of the Export button and nothing additional is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a resource is given an intuitive name by default and there is no choice of an export or download location, the export occurs on the click of the Export button and nothing additional is displayed.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of an export button on a data table](images/1.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
 <Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of a download button](images/download1.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Example of a download button](images/download1.png)

<Caption>Example of a download button</Caption>
```

 </Column>
</Row>

## Editable name

> When exporting/downloading with an editable name, a dialog should be presented to the user displaying an editable textbox that is pre-populated with the default name for the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a file's name can be edited before exporting or downloading, a dialog containing an editable textbox should be presented to the user. The textbox should be pre-populated with the file's default name.
```

When downloading, the file extension is not displayed.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of an export modal](images/2.png)

![Example of validation errors](images/newimage1.png)

<Caption>Validate the edited name's extension.</Caption>

![Example of an export modal in its "Exporting" state](images/3.png)

<Caption>Example of an export modal in its "Exporting" state</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Optional extras

> ### Specify export or download location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Specify the export or download location
```
